add MOLT tooling overview (#18701)
cockroachdb/docs: src/current/molt/molt-overview.md

---
title: MOLT Overview
summary: Learn how to use the MOLT tools to migrate to CockroachDB.
toc: true
docs_area: migrate
---

This page describes the MOLT (Migrate Off Legacy Technology) tools. For more information about migrating to CockroachDB, see [Migration Overview]({% link {{ site.current_cloud_version }}/migration-overview.md %}).

The MOLT tools can be used when:

- Converting a schema for compatibility with CockroachDB.
- Loading test and production data into CockroachDB.
- Validating queries on CockroachDB.

> - Performing a cutover to finalize the migration to CockroachDB.

Author: Perfect suggestion, thank you

## MOLT tools

<img src="{{ 'images/molt/molt_tools.svg' | relative_url }}" alt="MOLT tooling overview" style="max-width:100%" />

> |                        Tool                       |            Source databases           |                   Usage                   |                                      Release status                                      |

Reviewer: Is the right term here `source databases` or `supported dialects`. Since we use dialect in a lot of other places so just wondering about consistency.

Author: I think `Supported databases` is good. I think we use "dialect" in body text, outside of headings.

> |                        Tool                       |          Supported databases          |                   Usage                   |                                      Release status                                      |

Reviewer 2: Super minor nit: it might make sense to have the usage column come before the supported databases column.  As a reader, I'd want to know what a tool is for before knowing whether or not it works for a given database dialect.

Reviewer 3: +1

|---------------------------------------------------|---------------------------------------|-------------------------------------------|------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------|
| [Schema Conversion Tool](#schema-conversion-tool) | PostgreSQL, MySQL, Oracle, SQL Server | Schema conversion                         | GA                                                                                       |
| [Fetch](#fetch)                                   | PostgreSQL, MySQL, CockroachDB        | Initial data load; continuous replication | GA                                                                                       |
| [Verify](#verify)                                 | PostgreSQL, MySQL, CockroachDB        | Data validation                           | [Preview]({% link {{site.current_cloud_version}}/cockroachdb-feature-availability.md %}) |

> | [Live Migration Service](#live-migration-service) | PostgreSQL, MySQL, CockroachDB        | Consistent cutover                        | [Preview]({% link {{site.current_cloud_version}}/cockroachdb-feature-availability.md %}) |

Reviewer 2: For the usage here, should it be something more general like "Performing migration cutover"?  The fact that we only want to publish a consistent approach, can be left for the underlying LMS docs.

Reviewer 3: +1

### Schema Conversion Tool

> The [MOLT Schema Conversion Tool]({% link cockroachcloud/migrations-page.md %}) [converts a source database schema]({% link {{site.current_cloud_version}}/migration-overview.md %}#convert-the-schema) to a CockroachDB-compatible schema. The supported Schema Conversion Tool sources are PostgreSQL, MySQL, Oracle, and SQL Server.

Reviewer 2: Here we say "supported Schema Conversion Tool _sources_".  I'm wondering if this means that we should relabel the column in the table above from "Supported Databases" to "Supported Sources".  I personally find the latter more intuitive.

Reviewer 3: I agree we should be consistent. To bikeshed here for a minute, we sometimes talk about sources, databases, and dialects. I personally like databases because thats what they are but sources are more general (perhaps overtime S3 is a source for example?) and dialects feels more clinical. I dont have strong preferences but i do think we should pick one and be consistent

> The tool will convert the syntax, identify [unimplemented features and syntax incompatibilities]({% link {{site.current_cloud_version}}/migration-overview.md %}#unimplemented-features-and-syntax-incompatibilities) in the schema, and suggest edits according to CockroachDB [best practices]({% link {{site.current_cloud_version}}/migration-overview.md %}#schema-design-best-practices).

Reviewer: Maybe worth calling out that we only convert DDL statements. And destructive statements such as drop are ignored.

Author: Good call, done.

### Fetch

> [MOLT Fetch]({% link molt/molt-fetch.md %}) moves data from a source database into CockroachDB. Data can be moved via one-time bulk ingestion and continuously via streaming ingestion. The supported Fetch sources are PostgreSQL, MySQL, and CockroachDB.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
[MOLT Fetch]({% link molt/molt-fetch.md %}) moves data from a source database into CockroachDB. Data is moved via one-time bulk ingestion which can optionally be followed by continuously streaming ingestion. The supported Fetch sources are PostgreSQL, MySQL, and CockroachDB.
```

Reviewer 3: Just to clarify, we will eventually have other modes (continuous only, etc.) but i think adams suggestion works for now

> [MOLT Fetch]({% link molt/molt-fetch.md %}) moves data from a source database into CockroachDB. Data is moved via one-time bulk ingestion, which is optionally followed by continuously streaming ingestion. The supported Fetch sources are PostgreSQL, MySQL, and CockroachDB.

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
[MOLT Fetch]({% link molt/molt-fetch.md %}) moves data from a source database into CockroachDB. Data is moved via one-time bulk ingestion, which is optionally followed by continuously streaming replication. The supported Fetch sources are PostgreSQL, MySQL, and CockroachDB.
```

Author: Good catch!

> You can use MOLT Fetch to [load test data]({% link {{site.current_cloud_version}}/migration-overview.md %}#load-test-data) into CockroachDB, enabling you to [test your application queries]({% link {{site.current_cloud_version}}/migration-overview.md %}#validate-queries) on CockroachDB. When you're ready to [conduct the migration]({% link {{site.current_cloud_version}}/migration-overview.md %}#conduct-the-migration) in a production environment, use MOLT Fetch to move your source data to CockroachDB. You can also enable continuous replication of any changes on the source database to CockroachDB.

Reviewer 3: I know its functionally the same but should we have subheaders for test vs. production moves?

Reviewer 3: Im fine with leaving it as is. In the future, we likely will want to talk through this more but its not needed for right now.

### Verify

> [MOLT Verify]({% link molt/molt-verify.md %}) checks for discrepancies between the source and target schemas and data. This involves verifying that table structures, column definitions, and row values match between the source and target. The supported Verify sources are PostgreSQL, MySQL, and CockroachDB.

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
[MOLT Verify]({% link molt/molt-verify.md %}) checks for discrepancies between the source and target schemas and data. It verifies that table structures, column definitions, and row values match between the source and target. The supported Verify sources are PostgreSQL, MySQL, and CockroachDB.
```

> Use MOLT Verify after loading data with [MOLT Fetch](#fetch) and when [validating queries on CockroachDB]({% link {{site.current_cloud_version}}/migration-overview.md %}#validate-queries) to confirm that the CockroachDB data matches the source.

Reviewer 2: What were we hoping to convey with the "validating queries on CockroachDB" part?  From my perspective, the sentence reads better without that part.

Author: This was a misunderstanding on my part -- I removed it from the diagram but neglected to cut it here. Thanks!

### Live Migration Service

> The [MOLT Live Migration Service (LMS)]({% link molt/live-migration-service.md %}) routes traffic between an application, a source database, and a target CockroachDB database. You can use the LMS to control which database, as the "source of truth", is serving reads and writes to an application.

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
The [MOLT Live Migration Service (LMS)]({% link molt/live-migration-service.md %}) routes traffic among an application, a source database, and a target CockroachDB database. You can use the LMS to control which database acts as the "source of truth", serving reads and writes to an application.
```

> The [MOLT Live Migration Service (LMS)]({% link molt/live-migration-service.md %}) routes traffic between an application, a source database, and a target CockroachDB database. You use the LMS to control which database, as the "source of truth", is serving reads and writes to an application.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
The [MOLT Live Migration Service (LMS)]({% link molt/live-migration-service.md %}) routes traffic between an application, a source database, and a target CockroachDB database. You can use the LMS to control which database, as the "source of truth", is serving reads and writes to an application.
```

> When you have sufficiently tested your application on CockroachDB, you use the LMS to perform a transactionally consistent [cutover]({% link {{ site.current_cloud_version }}/migration-overview.md %}#cutover-strategy), thus switching the source of truth to CockroachDB. The supported LMS sources are PostgreSQL, MySQL, and CockroachDB.

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
When you have sufficiently tested your application on CockroachDB, use the LMS to perform a transactionally consistent [cutover]({% link {{ site.current_cloud_version }}/migration-overview.md %}#cutover-strategy), thus switching the source of truth to CockroachDB. The supported LMS sources are PostgreSQL, MySQL, and CockroachDB.
```
